In this post I present a novel class of quasiperiodic tilings which I call Singular Vertex Tilings.

These quasiperiodic tilings are generated by a substitution rule where the vertex-star is a single regular polygon, with the vertex at its center. All the vertices of protiles use this same vertex-star. This polygon is fragmented and its pieces are distributed among the prototiles that meet at that vertex. This method differs from traditional substitution rules, where the vertex-star is comprised of multiple polygons meeting at a central vertex. 

In addition, in a Pure Singular Vertex Tiling (Pure SVT), these regular polygons meet each other on the prototile edge, so that they alone comprise the border of the prototile. In contrast, in a Hybrid Singular Vertex Tiling (Hybrid SVT), the polygons don't meet on the edge, but rather leave a gap which is filled with one or more further polygons.

So far, I have found two Pure SVT Tilings. The first is a 12-fold case which has dodecagons as vertices, and the second is an 8-fold case which has octagons as vertices. The 12-fold case (called "Dodecagon-Boat") is presented below. The 8-fold case is not so elegant, and requires five prototiles. 

I have found two Hybrid SVT Tilings. The first is an 8-fold case (called "Octagon-Crescent") which has octagons as vertices, separated by squares. The third prototile in the set is a crescent shape. I have also found a 10-fold case (called "Bowtie-Hexagon-Decagon") with decagons as vertices, which also uses the Girih-shapes hexagon and bow-tie. Both these tilings are presented below.

## Dodecagon-Boat

A 12-fold Pure SVT with dodecagons as vertices. Note how, as the inflation proceeds, every vertex becomes a dodecagon, which in turn becomes a patch with local 12-fold symmetry.

### Substition Rule

### Patch

## Octagon-Crescent

An 8-fold Hybrid SVT with octagons as vertices, and squares on the edges. Choosing the crescent as the third tile-shape keeps the prototile count down in this tiling. 

### Substition Rule

### Patch

## Bowtie-Hexagon-Decagon

An 10-fold Hybrid SVT with decagons as vertices. Note how a bow-tie shape is required when three decagons come together, and further note that the bow-tie prototile is expanded by the edge tiles so that the central two decagons meet at an edge. If the tiling were smaller, these decagons would overlap, which is why a Hybrid SVT is needed in the 10-fold case.

### Substition Rule

### Patch

  


  
